Good morning, scholars. Good morning, everyone. As usual on a Wednesday, we're going to start

with our archetypal theory. Today's archetypal character is the Fool. Our last two characters

have been a little bit challenging. Remember that recently we took a look at the alter

ego, which is fairly difficult, and we took a look at the Byronic hero, which is quite

difficult, that rough around the edges kind of hero, very different than the standard

hero. This is a figure that I think is a lot more recognizable. So as usual, take a moment

to read over the description and turn to your neighbors and do some informal brainstorming

about figures you think fit this model, both from literature and from pop culture.

Even though we like him, last week we considered Jack Sparrow.

He's a little too intelligent, I think, maybe. He's more of a Byronic hero. This one needs

to be a little goofier. Oh yes, Forrest Gump is perfect. That's a perfect example. Never

come back from that. The only thing about his parrot is that he's a little too clever.

He's more of a sidekick. You want a character that generates a little bit more silly comic

really. Maybe so, yeah. Sometimes. Yeah, sometimes this character merges with the sidekick. Yeah,

that happens quite often, actually. Anything good? Maybe so. The thing about Moby Dick

though is I don't know if there are really any uproariously funny moments in that one.

It's a little bit of a serious book. You got that one? Peter Pettigrew? I say the twins.

Sometimes. Does that have to be a dumb character? It's like mostly the fool is a little bit

substandard intelligence, but then he'll have often these moments of crazy epiphany, which

is where the irony comes in. We perceive the fool to be lowly in stature and lowly in intelligence,

but then he'll come out with some kind of gem. Would Jim from Hug Finn be one? I think

the Zook and the Dauphin. Probably the goofballs there. Jim is a Byronic hero slash hero's best

friend. Absolutely. Anything good? Patrick's perfect. That's perfect. Yeah. Absolutely.

That's a good one. Now that everyone has had a chance to do some brainstorming and speak

with neighbors, as usual we're going to discuss these characteristics together and come up

with some examples from literature and pop culture. So the fool. As I mentioned, this

is a very common character as well. What you look for here is you look for the fool to

be an ironic form of comic relief. So what is comic relief? Someone give us an understanding

of comic relief. Yes. Like if it's a serious moment, is that one person who just makes

it like eases the mood? Absolutely. I like the way you said that eases the mood. That's

what you look for in comic relief. Therefore, we will often find fools in what kinds of

works of literature then class. Drama or tragedy. Yep. You look for this figure to kind of shake

things up because if the mood gets too serious, it's hard for the audience to maintain focus.

We have a little bit of irony here. Here's essentially the irony that goes on. Although

the fool is ridiculous and although the fool may not have the highest social standing or

may not be the most intellectually gifted, the fool will sometimes come out with these

little gems of wisdom. So the irony here is that although lowly, the fool is usually

momentarily wise. The fool will have these little quick wise moments and we're going

to talk about why. So again, his appearance or his station in life, his socioeconomic

status, he may not be noble, maybe kind of lowly or ridiculous or silly, but this often

reminds us of how arbitrary class snobbery can be. What is arbitrary? Random. Unfair.

Not based on fact. Because a lot of times when people in certain social classes, the

higher ones, when they consider themselves better than everyone else, that class snobbery

is shattered by the fool because here's the fool in the lower class or who gets less respect

and he'll see something about the upper class that really exposes their ridiculousness

or their folly. So he's a commentator. He comments upon the powerful people, the wealthy people

in society and he gets away with it. How can the fool get away with making these kinds

of comments? How can he do it? How can he get away with it? Yes?

Because he's not afraid to say stupid things so he can kind of say what's on everyone else's

mind. Absolutely. And then if he says something that

does kind of hit close to home, everybody says, oh, well, he's always saying ridiculous

things like that. It makes it safe. So at times, this is what we were just getting at,

he can relate profound wisdom or irony because this inferior status gives him insight on

the human condition. See, he's, in a lot of ways, the fool should feel like an outsider.

And you know that when you remove yourself from a situation, that's when you get perspective.

When you're in the situation, it's hard to get a good perspective because you're biased

because you're in it. Now, what's also kind of funny about the fool, the fool will often

have strangely these streaks of good luck. And sometimes you'll see this archetype merge

with the sidekick. But what will make the fool a little bit different? This is one of

the distinguishing factors is that the sidekick may never have a moment of real wisdom, whereas

the fool will. So that's one way that you can separate them. But sometimes these figures

do merge, do combine. Does all that make sense? Okay, so let's hear from you. What are some

examples first from literature? So here we're looking for examples from books and plays

and major works. Oh, wow. Very good. So let's go with Jordan right here.

Rodrigo. Tell us about where Rodrigo comes from.

Well, he's a fool because during the whole play he's providing comic relief with all

the crying and over does the moon and things. But when Cassio was going on about Othello

and basically just like saying all these bad things about him, he's like, well, why don't

you quit? Yeah. And so that was a good advice from it was and you know what, in Act five,

I won't ruin it because we're not to act five yet. But in Act five, Rodrigo is going to

have this great moment of wisdom. He's going to figure something out that no one else has.

So just wait for that moment in Act five. Shikobi. I say on first. Yeah, tell us about

it because he kind of like does everything that they say, like he says all the stuff

about Beowulf that nobody else kind of expected anyone to say to him. And then like at the

end, he did have like the wisdom where him and Beowulf it like exchange the swords and

stuff. Absolutely. It's perfect. Very good. He does fit well. Can anybody think of the

clue that tells us that unfurth may be of an inferior status? There's one little clue

in the epic. What's that? He sits at Rothgar's feet. That may give him a court jester kind

of role. We're not sure though. That's ambiguous in the epic. That's an excellent example.

All right. Who else has an example? Humza. Mary and Pippin from Lord of the Rings. Tell

us how they fit. Because like they're always joking around the whole movie, but then eventually

when they're both under stress, they all they both come through it in different ways. Absolutely.

They bring the trees, right? They bring the ends and something else to look out for. This

is worth jotting down. Look for silly names here too. You know, when we look at these

names, look at unfurth, right? No courage, no peace. This was something we looked at

etymologically at one point. Look at Mary and Pippin. What does Mary mean? Like happy

or jolly. Yeah. So look for the names to be a little silly too. Okay. Excellent example.

What's another one? Yes. Neville from Harry Potter. Very good. What's his whole name?

Long bottom. Long bottom. You know, it's kind of like saying big bottom. It's pretty funny.

He has a goofy appearance in the films. You know, he's got buck teeth and everything,

but boy he comes through, doesn't he? A couple times he comes through for Harry and the Friends.

Yeah. Good. Okay. What's another one? Yes. Elora. I was going to say, but well, that's

a movie. Nevermind. Okay. I'll call you back. I'll call you back. Yes. Ron Weasley. He's

still sort of the sidekick in the full. At times. Absolutely. Ron Weasley has moments

where he is in fact a sidekick, but he does fulfill a full, you know, role as well. I

have to answer the phone. This is realistic. Okay. Sadie. Also from Harry Potter, there's

Fred and George. What's that? Fred and George. Okay. Tell us about it. They like have their

joke shop even when everything is all gray and then like they played pranks at the school

and everything's bad. Like when they have the bad teachers and stuff. That's excellent.

Thank you. You can really tell Rowling loves archetypal theory. Tons of archetypes. Yes.

I don't know if the Mad Hatter counts. Oh, absolutely. The Mad Hatter and?

The Cat? The Mad Hatter's partner in silliness. The March Hare. Oh, the rabbit. No, not the white

rabbit. The white rabbit is different. He's one with the watch, right? With Alice and Alice in

Wonderland. The Mad Hatter is of course spouting nonsense. This is Lewis Carroll doing some satire

because in the 1800s when hats were made, the workers used mercury to shine them up and they

used their hands. They didn't use gloves with the mercury. Mercury is poisonous and if you handle

it too much it can cause insanity. So in England, mad means crazy. Yeah. So he's mad. He's crazy

because of the hat making. Lewis Carroll's doing a bit of satire here. And a March Hare in March,

rabbits propagate. So in England if you say that someone's acting like a March Hare it means they're

acting crazy, you know, out of control. So these two are absolutely fools in Alice in Wonderland.

Very good. All right. What's another example from Lit here? Yes. Well, the advisor for Mulan,

it was a book too. So Mulan was a book too. But the advisor to the general. Tell us about it. He

wasn't really helpful at first. He kept trying to suck up to the general and then he kind of

helped out at the end with the general's son. So he's more of a fool as opposed to a wise old man?

Yeah. Okay. Sounds good. So we'll put him down here for pop culture. Is there anything else you

wanted to say about literature before we move to pop culture? Andrew. I don't know about this one,

but maybe Wilson from Gatsby. Explain. He just seems like he's like always like part of everyone's

joke and stuff. He's just not, he never really succeeds. He is the butt of everyone's jokes.

He's kind of a perennial loser. Yeah. I can see where you're going with that. I wonder,

does he have a lucky streak or a moment of wisdom? That's the only thing that. That's why I said I

didn't know about. Yeah. I think that you're right. I think he's kind of a tweener. I think he has

elements of it. I think that's a good point. Hamza. Would Peter Pettigrew be one? Explain.

Because he'd be the fool to both Voldemort and kind of Harry Potter. Because Voldemort always

kind of picks on him and stuff. But when Harry really needs him, Peter Pettigrew comes through

because Harry basically saved his life. So he has that streak of helpfulness. That could work.

Absolutely. Jack. I don't know his name, but in the Sheikhov play we read in 10th grade,

the seagull. Seagull. Sure. I think he's like the grandfather character to the main character,

whose name is. I don't know his name. Okay. But grandfather to the seagull?

But yeah, he's like really jovial the whole time while there's a lot of just like

melodramatic things going on in everyone's lives. And he just kind of pokes fun at it.

Has, I guess, insight to the human condition. Does his poking fun involve making fun of how

seriously the characters are taking their lives and everything? That would seem to be actually

perfect. Yeah. I haven't read it in many years, so I don't remember the character either. But the

example sounds good. Others from Lit. I was also thinking about Lenny from Of Mice and Men,

who is intellectually challenged but definitely is wise about some things. He's the only character

on the ranch who isn't racist. He's the only character on the ranch who talks to Curly's wife.

So those are some ideas there. One thing I wanted to do before we hit pop culture.

Shakespeare does something great in Romeo and Juliet with the fool because he spreads the

fool characteristics to two different characters. Can you think of which two characters in Romeo

and Juliet have these characteristics and they're not taking seriously? But boy, they have these

moments of intense wisdom. Yes, Josh. Mercutio and the nurse from Romeo and Juliet. And let's

give that man some snaps. So tell us about that. Tell us about Mercutio and the nurse and how that

works. Well, Mercutio is kind of like Romeo's best buddy. They always get into trouble and Mercutio

doesn't really take anything seriously. And the nurse sort of just looks after Juliet and even

she's sort of like the help to the Capulet family. So they don't really pay any attention to her,

but she knows things. Yeah, very good. That's a nice job. I was really amazed by how quickly

you came up with that. So does everybody have these examples written down for lit? Yeah,

we're going to go ahead and move on to pop culture because I know you're really dying to share your

examples for pop culture. This is so common in pop culture and entertainment. So what are some

examples? Yeah, I knew it. I could tell you're simmering here into the surface with ideas. Yes,

go ahead in the back for she's from Star Wars. Yes, tell us how.

Me, like everything goes wrong. He's always the one to mess something up and make the audience

laugh when everything's going terribly wrong. Right. And what's his streak of luck? He gets

this funny little little stroke of luck. Later on, what happens to him? Do you remember that is

really kind of great or lucky? Does anybody remember? Can anybody tag team? You remember

what happens to Jar Jar? Yeah, I think when he was in the middle of the war and then he got lucky

because nobody shot him. Right. He walks to the battlefield with people falling in every direction.

He just kind of walks casually through it. Also, later on, he becomes a very important ambassador

type for his country just by sheer luck. He never designed this for himself. That's a great example.

What's another example? Yes, Kalia. We came up with Bubba and Forest from Forest Gump. Absolutely.

Tell us how. Well, they're both kind of like they get the impression that they're kind of

retarded in a way. But then they both give like great ideas and saving lives and

just like putting themselves in other people's hands like that kind of thing. Absolutely. Yeah,

they're wise about the things that matter. That's a hallmark of the fool, but not taken seriously

by society despite how much they add to it. Yeah, that's excellent. They both are fools. Very good.

Oh, who to choose. Let's see here. Yes, for son. I said, I boo from Aladdin. Tell us about it.

Well, he's kind of like the fool, not really the psychic to the whole movie. I think he's like

his point of wisdom is telling Aladdin to go talk to Jasmine. Really? I don't think he has like a

real like good like streak of love. No, I think you're right because he is the one that he is

the one that pushes Aladdin into chasing Jasmine, which is his love. Absolutely. Yeah, but he has

this foolish moments too, like in the cave of wonders when he steals the jewel. So he does that

foolish moment as well. It's a really good example. Quasi, what'd you come up with? I came up with

Homer Simpson. Absolutely. Because he does share wisdom to his children and also he's not really

taking serious by a lot of people. Absolutely. Does anybody know the joke in his name? There's

a joke in both names. Let's see here. Isan, you want to try? Where are the jokes in this name?

Homer was like the person who made the Iliad in Antigone. The Odyssey. The Odyssey.

And he's really well known for being very

like just amazing with words and what he does. That's right. So the irony here is that, you know,

Homer is, as Isan said, the one who brings us the Odyssey. So he's one of the world's great poets and

he's amazing with words. Whereas Homer Simpson is not the most eloquent character you've ever met.

And then take a look at Simpson. Does anybody have an idea what's going on with that with Simpson?

Yes, Jordan. Simple. It's like simple. Absolutely. Yes. A really funny name here. Excellent job.

Who else has some examples here? Who hasn't gone yet? Adam. Donkey from Shrek. Absolutely. Tell

us about it. Well, he's kind of like Shrek's sidekick for like the journey, like through the

woods or whatever. But he provides comic relief and a bunch of like dumb sayings. And he also has

some like wise words of wisdom at some point. He does. You know, Donkey says the things that we're

often thinking, you know, the things that we want to say. That's a great example. Yes, go ahead.

Okay. I don't know her name, but it's from Gone with the Wind. And she's one with a really squeaky

voice. And she's like, she's telling him she knows how to deliver the baby, but she doesn't.

Oh, yes. That's like the only funny part in the movie. Is it Sissy? It's something like that. It's

something like that. I absolutely know what you mean. I want to say I'm going to put this in quotes

because I'm not exactly sure. She's one of the servants. Yeah, she absolutely is the fool. Yeah,

I think that that's her name. So this one definitely check up on me on this one. So I'm not exactly sure.

I haven't seen it in a while. Yes. Well, I'm not exactly sure either. But would Harvo from the color

purple be one? I think so. Give it a try. Okay. Well, isn't Harpo like, well, in the movie, he was

like always the one who always get in trouble and like can do things right. And um, Sophia always

didn't like the way he did things and stuff like that. Good. That be one? I think so. And if we

think about the name too, can you think of another famous Harpo? This is before your time. But I don't

know if you've heard of this name before. Anyone ever heard of it before? Harpo Marks. Marks brothers.

That's way before your time. That's even before my time. If you can imagine that. I mean, I went to

high school shortly after the Civil War. So, um, let's see. Go ahead, Trent. Shaggy and Scooby. Tell

us about it. They're always like, it's called Scooby Doo. It's like the show centered around him,

but he's always like a scaredy cat. Even though he's like the big Greek dog. And he's always like

trying to like get out of the mystery and he always ends up like running into like the villain

or doing something like he didn't accidentally to like catch the villain or always be at the wrong

place at the wrong time and get lucky. Every time. It's a formula. Yeah. Yeah. That's very,

very good. Good. We're just going to do a few more so we can progress to Shakespeare. Let's see. Has

everyone had a chance to speak whose hands are raised? Oh, LaShawna. Give us a character, but yes.

From like the Waterboy. Okay. Excellent. Tell us about it. Because he's like always doing funny

stuff. And he plays like a fool in almost all his movies. Sure. Now LaShawna brings up something

we've discussed before. There are certain actors and actresses that get typecast into these

archetypal roles. For instance, Angelina Jolie is often which archetypal character that we studied?

The femme fatale. Right. And so here Adam Sandler is often the fool. Yeah. So look for that. Also,

I've noticed that some actors tend to be Byronic heroes. I've noticed that Brad Pitt has taken a

lot of Byronic hero characters. Yeah. Just a couple more, everyone. Let's see. Go ahead. Kalea.

Mo Shu from... Tell us about it. Because he's like always the one that's just cracking jokes.

But then he always has like the times where when something happens, he's always the one that like

gives the insight and knows what to do about it. He's right there. Yeah. Yeah. Let's do one more.

Let's see here. Andrew. The drug dealer from Flight. Explain. Because like every time,

every time it's a really intense movie. Okay. And then every time they show him, he just comes in

like breaks up all of the tension in the movie. Even though, I mean, it's unfortunate that he's

a drug dealer, but then at the same time, he always says like, he gives him advice all the time. So.

I think that works great, Andrew, especially because the fool is supposed to be outside of

the typical society. He's definitely not within that circle because drug dealing is not a legitimate

legal kind of business, but it probably gives him insight. Yeah. That's excellent. Class,

any questions about this concept about the archetypal fool?

I think good. All right. Class, give yourself some snaps, please.

Excellent.

