Surgery she's coming in for the capra tunnel.

Tunneling.

Tunneling.

So the tunneling is pretty much the bones, right on the palm and they need to relieve

the nerves that will actually allow or reduce the pain pretty much.

That's why she was coming for the surgery.

She was anxious.

She was stressed and we took the ops and we noticed that the ops was normal but it's

tachycardia and tachyfemina.

So and that speaks volumes by reading that.

The next day she came to the hospital at 8 o'clock for the surgery at 15.30 I think it

was.

At that time we took the BGL and the BGL was very low.

You can remind me what was the initial BGL.

3.8.

Okay 3.8.

You can look at the one we did yesterday, 3.8 but the doctor wanted the BGL to be taken

an hour.

An hour before the surgery?

Yes.

Okay an hour before surgery and it happens to be still low or high?

Low.

Low.

An hour before.

Okay.

Now because it's low what are some of the things we talked about yesterday?

The BGL.

Okay what are some of the procedures we have to follow because it's low and she's going

for surgery shortly?

Report that to the doctor.

We report to the hand and hand then to the doctor.

So pretty much that is one of the procedures we follow.

Now for how long should we need to check again?

Remember it's an hour till the time she's going to go for surgery.

15 minutes.

Okay the first 15 minutes.

We need to recheck after 15 minutes.

Yep.

This is the half hour BGL check we gave you yesterday.

We will wait another 15 minutes.

It's a continuous monitoring you have to do and at that time the next half an hour the

doctor will now decide to whether to call it off or ask to come another day.

We made a lot of assumptions yesterday based on the story.

One the assumption could mean that she always thinks that each time she's coming for surgery

that she has to be nailed by mounds.

Okay.

In your placement you are expected to be able to manage a diabetic patient.

Take for instance you take a BGL.

Let's say it's low.

Assume it's low for this particular patient.

Alright.

How will you approach that?

And I gave two scenarios yesterday.

Again a little bit very funny.

The scenario I gave is that you can approach your receptor and say look I've taken the

BGL is 4.0 millimole and you stop there.

So or I've taken the BGL is 4.0.

You already know what you think you have to do.

Go further and say where are your hypoglycemic kits you have.

It goes beyond that you initiate and you know how to manage that.

Compared with yep I've taken the reading 4.0 millimole.

That's it.

What do you want me to do?

You understand?

So you are expected to be able to initiate that and that will give that at least you

know what you are doing and how to manage that.

Then after that you monitor frequently just to see whether the BGL will go up.

Does that make sense?

