This is 14.01.

I'm John Gruber, and this is microeconomics.

Today, I want to cover three things.

I want to talk about the course details.

I want to talk about what is microeconomics,

and then I'll start the substance of the course

by talking about supply and demand.

Couple of the points about the course.

The course will have a distinct sort of policy angle to it.

I sort of do economic policy.

Government policy is my thing.

So I think it's what makes economics exciting,

and it sort of offers, I think, an interesting angle

to understand why we're learning what we're learning.

I think sometimes in an intro class,

it's sort of hard to understand why the heck you're doing

things.

However, that's just sort of a slight flavor

if you're really more interested in this.

I teach a whole course called 14.41.

I'm not teaching it this year, but it'll

be taught by a visitor in the spring,

Kristen Butcher from Wellesley, and I'll

be teaching it next year that dives much more

into these policy issues.

So I'm going to sort of use government policy

as sort of an organizing theme, but it

won't be sort of the dominant theme of the class.

Finally, three points about my teaching style.

I don't write everything in the board.

We're not in high school anymore.

You're actually responsible for what I say, not what I write.

Partly, that's because my handwriting is brutal,

as you can tell already.

So what that means is please, please

do not be afraid to ask me what the hell I just

wrote on the board.

There's no shame in that.

Don't just lean to your neighbor and say,

what the hell is this right on the board?

Like, ask me, because if you can't read it,

I'm sure someone else can't read it.

So feel free to ask.

And in general, please feel free to engage

with questions in this class.

The other point of my teaching style is I talk way too fast.

And the longer I go, there's a mathematical function,

which is the longer I go without interruption,

the faster I speak until I just spin off.

So basically, please ask questions.

If anything's not clear or you just

want to ask questions about some related tangent or whatever,

please feel free to do so.

You might think, how would that work in a class this big?

There's always way too few questions.

Even a class is big.

So never be afraid that it'll slow me down or whatever.

Ask a question.

We have plenty of time on the class.

And you'll be doing your classmates a favor,

because it'll slow me down.

Finally, last point, I have this terrible tendency

to use the term guys in a gender neutral way.

This class I like to see looks like it's

a fairly healthy representation of both males and females.

When I say guys, I don't mean men.

I mean people.

I mean people.

So don't take it women.

Don't take it personally.

Guys means economic agents.

It means people.

It doesn't mean men.

Just the way, just a bad tendency.

It drives my wife crazy.

But I've decided better to just apologize up front

than try to fix it throughout, which is impossible.

So let's talk about what is microeconomics.

So fundamentally, microeconomics,

how many people took AP high school econ?

For how many was it taught really well?

OK.

That's about right.

That's why I did my high school online class.

That's the answer I wanted to hear.

So tell your friends still in high school,

or take an actual econ.

If your high school econ teacher isn't great,

tell them to go on edX and take the class.

And help out your friends still in high school.

OK.

So what is microeconomics?

Microeconomics is a study of how individuals and firms make

decisions in a world of scarcity.

Scarcity is what drives microeconomics.

OK?

Basically, what microeconomics is

is a series of constrained optimization exercises.

Where economic agents, be they firms or individuals,

try to make themselves as well off as possible,

given their constraints.

Yeah?

Will this cover irrationality?

I will, but not as much as I should.

Essentially, we have another course in the department called

1413, Behavioral Economics, which gets in that much more.

I will sprinkle it throughout, but not as much as I actually

believe in it.

In other words, the way we think about economics

is it's best to get the basics down before you start

worrying about the deviations.

Finds better to climb the tree before you

start going out in the branches.

OK.

So basically, what this course is then about

is it's about trade-offs.

It's about, given that you're constrained,

how do you trade off things to make yourself

as well off as possible?

And behind this notion of trade-offs is going to be,

I'll say about 100 times, this is the most important thing

in the course, so just ignore that.

But this is one of the most important things.

I'll say one of the most important things

in the course is the notion of opportunity cost.

Opportunity cost is a very important concept

that we teach, the first concept we teach,

which is that every action or every inaction has a cost,

and that you could have been doing something else instead.

So if you buy a shirt, you could have bought pants.

If you sit at home and watch TV, you

could have been out working.

Everything you do has a next best alternative

you could have done instead, and that is called the opportunity

cost.

And that's a critical concept in economics,

and that is why, in some sense, we

are called, referred to casually as the dismal science.

Economics are referred to as the dismal science.

First of all, I'm flattered we're considered a science.

But we're called the dismal science

because our whole point is that nothing is free.

There's always a trade-off.

There's always an opportunity cost.

Anything you do, you could be doing something else instead.

And your constrained optimization

means you're going to have to pass up one thing

to do another.

Now, some may call it dismal, but as a former MIT

undergraduate, I call it fun.

And this is why I think MIT is the perfect place

to be teaching economics, because MIT engineering

is all about constrained optimization.

That's what engineering is.

And economics is just the principles

you learn in engineering applied in different contexts.

So if we think about the 2007 contest,

that still exists with the robots?

2007?

Yeah.

The 2007 contest, those of you who know,

is a contest where you're given a limited set of materials,

and you have to build a robot that

does some tasks like pushing ping pong balls off a table

or something like that.

That's just constrained optimization.

It's got nothing to do with economics,

but it's constrained optimization.

So just think of microeconomics as engineering,

but actually interesting.

So think of microeconomics as engineering,

but instead of building something

to push a ping pong ball off tables,

you actually build people's lives and businesses

and understand the decisions that drive our economy.

So the same principles that you could think of for your engineering

classes, but applied to people's lives.

And that's why, in fact, modern economics was born in this room,

either this room or 26-100, by Paul Samuelson in the 1940s

and 50s, who wrote the fundamental textbook that

gave birth to modern economics, because he was here

and applied the kind of engineering principles of MIT

to actually develop the field of modern economics.

What we'll learn today was developed at MIT,

so it's a great place to be learning it.

Now, with that as background, any questions about that?

About what is microeconomics?

With that as background, let's turn to the first model

we'll talk about this semester, which

is the supply and demand model.

Supply and demand.

Now, the way we're going to proceed in this course

is going to drive you crazy, because we're

going to proceed by teaching very,

as the very first question pointed out,

by teaching very simplified models.

We're going to essentially, what is a model?

A model is technically a description

between any two or more economic variables,

or any two or more variables.

But unlike the models you use in all your other classes,

these aren't laws, by and large.

They're models.

So we don't have a relationship between energy and mass,

which we can write down.

It's a law, and we're done.

We have models which are never 100% true,

but always pretty true, pretty being somewhere between 10

and 95% true.

So basically, the idea is to make a trade-off.

We want to write down in our models

a set of simplifying assumptions that allow us,

with a relatively small set of steps,

to capture relatively broad phenomena.

So it's essentially a trade-off.

On the one hand, we'd like a model

that captures as well as possible the phenomenon

in the real world, like equals mc squared.

But we want to do so in the most tractable possible way,

so that we can teach it from first principles

and not, don't need an hour to teach every single insight

we have.

So basically, in economics, we tend

to resolve that by erring on the side of tractability.

That is why I can teach you the entire field of microeconomics,

which is really sort of macro is kind of a fun application.

Micro is really economics.

I can teach you the entire field of microeconomics

at a semester, because we're going

to make a whole huge set of simplifying assumptions

to make things tractable.

But the key thing is that you will

be amazed at what these models will be able to do.

With a fairly simple set of models,

we'll be able to offer insights and explain

a whole huge variety of phenomena,

never perfectly, but always pretty well, generally pretty

well.

And so that is essentially the trade-off

we're going to try to do this semester.

So the line I like is the statistician George Box

said that all models are wrong, but some are useful.

Now, obviously, it doesn't apply to models in the hard sciences,

but in the social sciences, that's true.

And basically, I'm going to write down

a set of models like that.

Now, with every model I write down, I'm going to try.

My goal is to have you understand it at three levels.

The first and most important level is the intuitive level,

the level which you sort of understand,

I call it passing the mom test.

You can go home and explain it to your mom at Thanksgiving,

or at the end of the semester.

No offense to dads, just call it the mom test.

So basically, that's the intuitive level.

You really understand it the way that you could explain it.

The second is graphical.

Most of our models here were developed

in a graphical framework using xy graphs that were really,

in economics, we think delivers a lot of shorthand power.

And the third is mathematical.

The mathematical is probably the least important,

but it's the easiest to test you on.

So we're going to need to know things mathematically as well.

So let's start by considering the supply and demand model

by using the famous example brought up by Adam Smith.

Adam Smith is sort of considered the father of economics.

Paul Sam is the father of modern economics.

Adam Smith is the father of all economics.

His 1776 book, The Wealth of Nations,

did an incredible job of actually laying out

the entire core of the economics field.

No math, just words, but he just nailed it.

And he started, one of his most famous examples

was the water diamond paradox.

He said, think about water and diamonds.

Let's start with water.

Nothing is more important for life than water.

It's the building block of all of life.

Even when we look for life on other planets,

we always start by looking for water.

Now think of diamonds, one of the more frivolous things

you can buy, certainly irrelevant to leading

a successful or happier productive life or any life.

Yet, for most of us, water is free

and diamonds are super expensive.

How can this be, Adam Smith asked?

Well, the answer he posed is that what I first described

was just demand.

That is, we demand lots of water.

We demand fewer diamonds.

But we have to match that with the concept of supply.

And the supply of water is almost infinite,

while the supply of diamonds, maybe not naturally,

maybe it's through decisions of various businesses,

but it's somewhat limited.

So basically, what he developed is

what we call the supply and demand scissors,

that you can't just think of supply or demand in isolation.

You have to put them together if you want to explain

the real world phenomenon we see,

like the fact that water is cheap and diamonds are

expensive.

So let's talk about an example.

So there's one graph that's hanging out in the back,

which is let's talk about the market for roses.

OK.

So in the market for roses, we have a demand

curve and a supply curve.

So what we have here, this is the kind of XY graph

we're going to look at all throughout the semester.

On the x-axis is the quantity of roses.

On the y-axis is the price of roses.

The blue downward sloping line is the demand curve.

Now, what I'm going to do here, I'm

just giving you an overview.

We are going over the next five or six lectures,

dive into where this demand curve comes from.

We'll go to first principles and build it back up.

But for now, we need to know about demand curve,

is it simply represents the relationship

between the price of a good and how much people want it.

Therefore, we assume it is downward sloping.

At higher prices, people want less of the good.

And we'll derive where that comes from shortly,

start in the next lecture.

But for now, I think it's pretty intuitive

that if the price of roses is higher,

people want fewer of them.

And that's why it's downward sloping.

That basically, as the price of roses goes up,

people want fewer roses.

The yellow curve is the supply curve.

Now, after we've derived the demand curve,

we'll then go and spend about 12 lectures

deriving the supply curve.

That's a bit harder.

But once again, we'll start from first principles

and build it up.

For now, you just need to know, is

that's how much firms are willing to supply given

the price.

So basically, as the price goes up,

firms want to produce more roses.

The higher price means you make more money,

so you want to produce more of them.

This is slightly less intuitive than demand,

but we'll derive and explain how it can be.

But for now, just go with the basic intuition

that if you're making something and you

can sell it on the market for a higher price,

you're going to want to make more of it.

And that leads to the upward sloping supply curve.

Where the points meet is the market equilibrium.

Where supply and demand meets is the market equilibrium.

That is the point where both consumers and producers

are happy to make a transaction.

Consumers are happy because on their demand curve

is the $0.3 in 600 roses.

That is, they are willing to buy 600 roses at $3.

Producers are happy because on their supply curve

is the same point.

They are willing to supply 600 roses at $3.

That is the one point where consumers are happy

and producers are happy.

Therefore, it's the equilibrium, highly non-technical.

But that's the basic intuition.

The point at which they're both willing to make that transaction,

the point at which they're both satisfied

with that transaction is the equilibrium,

which in this case is $3 per rose and 600 roses.

Now, this raises lots of questions.

Where do the curves come from?

How does equilibrium get achieved?

Why the heck do we give roses?

These are a bunch of questions.

We will come to all these questions

over the next set of lectures.

But the basic thing is to understand

this intuition of Adam Smith's supply and demand model.

OK, questions about that?

Now, this model also raises another important distinction

that will focus on the semester and is easy to get mixed up.

So if you're ever unclear, I want you to ask me about it.

And that's the distinction between positive

versus normative analyses, positive versus normative.

Positive analyses is the study of the way things are,

while normative analyses is the study of the way things

should be.

Positive analyses is the study of the way things are,

while normative analysis is the study of the way things should be.

Let me give you a great example, which is eBay auctions.

Auctions are a terrific example.

They're like the textbook example of the competitive market.

You can see it in your head.

Demand comes from a bunch of people going on and bidding.

People who want it more bid more.

So you actually get a demand curve.

The higher the price, the fewer people you're getting to bid.

Supply is how many units of it are for sale on eBay.

You bid until those two meet, and then you

have a market equilibrium at that bided price.

Now, one example of an eBay auction

that got a lot of attention a number of years ago,

early in the days of eBay, was someone

offered their kidney for auction.

They said, look, I got two kidneys.

You'll only need one to live.

There are people out there who need a kidney.

Kidney on eBay for auction.

And what happened, bidding went nuts.

It started at $25,000.

It climbed to $5 million before the auction was shut down,

and eBay decided they wouldn't allow you

to sell your body on eBay, bodily parts on eBay.

So this raises two questions.

The first is the positive question.

Why did the price go so high?

So what's the answer to that?

What's the answer to the positive question?

Somebody wants a kidney?

OK, good answer, but let's raise hands and give answers.

That's part of it.

Yeah?

Low supply, high demand.

Demand is incredibly high, because I die without it.

Supply is low, because not a lot of us

are willing to sell their kidneys on eBay.

So low supply, high demand led to a high price.

Adam Smith at work, that's the positive analysis.

But this raises the normative question,

which is, should you be allowed to sell your kidneys on eBay?

That's the normative question.

The positive question is, what happens if you do?

The normative question is, should you?

Now, the standard economics answer to start

would be, of course you should.

We're in a world where thousands of people

die every year, because there's a waiting list for a kidney

transplant.

And these are people who would happily pay a lot of money

to stay alive, I presume.

Meanwhile, there's hundreds of millions

of people walking around with two kidneys who only need one.

And many of these people are poor,

and lives could be changed by being paid

a million dollars for their kidney,

and might be happy to take the risk that one kidney will

be fine, as it is for most everyone for most of their life,

and return for having a life changing payment

from a stranger.

So economists would say, look, here's a transaction

to make both parties better off.

The person who gets the kidney gets to stay alive,

and they are willing to pay a huge amount for that.

The person who sells the kidney in most probability

is fine, because almost all of us

can make it through life fine with one kidney,

and can get a life changing amount of money

that could allow them to pursue their dreams in various ways.

So that's the standard argument would be, yeah,

you should be able to sell your kidneys on eBay.

So the question is, why not?

Why would we want to stop this transaction?

What are the counter arguments to that?

Let's raise our hand.

Yeah?

AUDIENCE 1.

I think maybe the issue is because it was eBay,

there's no way to regulate it, or you don't necessarily

know people could be selling fake kidneys, per se.

Right.

So the first type of problem comes out

of the category we call market failures.

Market failures are reasons why the market doesn't work

in the wonderful way economists like to think it should.

So for example, this answer puts up

there could be the problem of fraud.

People might not be able to tell if they're

getting a legit kidney or not.

There could be the example of imperfect information.

OK?

There could be the example of imperfect information.

Do you know what the odds are that you

can spend the rest of your life with only one kidney?

I don't either.

OK?

We ought to know that before we start selling our kidneys.

OK?

There could be imperfect information.

These are the kinds of this is one type of problem,

which is the market may be the market may fail.

OK?

Yeah?

Like the current system also holds people who are poor

and have failed kidney.

And which are people who would be completely screwed

out of water in the current system?

A second problem is what we call equity or fairness.

Equity or fairness, which is we would end up

with a world where only rich people would get kidneys.

OK?

Currently, there's a bunch of voluntary donors and people

who are in accidents who have kidneys left over.

OK?

And those go to people on the basis

of where they are on a waiting list.

It's actually a prioritized waiting list.

It's kind of a cool.

One of my colleagues, Nikhil Agarwal, if you think about,

I'll talk a lot this semester about the imperialistic view

of economics, all the cool things we can study.

So he actually uses economic models

to study the optimal way to allocate organs to individuals.

Right now, it's just done based on a waiting list.

But it may be that someone further down the waiting list

needs it more than someone higher up the waiting list,

because they're more critical or whatever.

So there's various optimal ways to allocate.

But certainly, the optimal way to allocate

wouldn't be the rich guy gets it first.

That would be unlikely to be what society would necessarily

want.

So there's an equity concern with that.

What else?

What other?

Yeah?

You had a situation earlier.

Since you knew you could make money off of selling kidneys

and you pick a band of different people,

and this is very bad, but watch market for kidneys.

Right.

So there's sort of a third.

It's related to fraud, but there's

a third class of failures that gets

into the question about behavioral economics

that was raised earlier, which we can just call

so behavioral failure, behavioral,

let's just call it behavioral economics, for want

of a better term, which is essentially,

people don't always make decisions

in the perfectly rational, logical way

we will model them as doing so this semester.

People make mistakes.

That's a word we hate using in economics.

We hate saying mistakes.

Ooh, boo, mistakes.

Nobody makes mistakes.

We're all perfectly little economic beings,

but we know that's not true.

Increasingly, over the past several decades,

economists have started incorporating insights

from psychology into our models to not just say people

make mistakes, that's a lackadaisical,

but to rigorously model the nature of those mistakes

and understand how mistakes can actually

happen due to various cognitive biases and other things.

In this world, you can imagine people could make mistakes.

They could not really sit down and quite understand

what they're doing, and they could have

selling their kidney when it's really not

in their own long-term interest.

Yeah?

Another example would be, as I was like a family that's

in extreme poverty, even though they only have one kidney,

they might sell the other one to secure more money

for the family, per se.

Well, I mean, in subsets, that would be, once again,

if we took this factor out, if the market works well

as known behavioral effects, we'd say, well,

that's their decision.

Otherwise, they starve.

Who are you to say?

OK?

But once you choose this, say, well, wait a second.

Maybe they're not evaluating the trade-offs correctly.

Even if there's no fraud, even if there's perfect information,

they may not know how to process that information correctly.

OK?

But that is not standard economics.

That's not what we'll spend a lot of time on this semester,

but it's obviously realistic.

OK?

So those are a bunch of good comments, great comments.

And that, yeah?

Also in elastic demand, such that you will always

need kidneys for that.

That won't turn out to be a problem.

That doesn't turn out to be a problem.

OK, and we'll come back.

That's a great comeback that we talk about the shape

of demand curves.

We want to return to that question in a few lectures,

but that doesn't actually cause a problem.

It's just that's more of a positive thing

about why the price is so high.

But it's not a normative issue about whether you

should allow it or not.

OK?

So basically, these are exactly, this isn't, to me,

honestly, I spend my life thinking

a lot about these things.

I think these are really interesting issues.

But you can't get to the normative issues

without the positive analysis.

You need to do the positive analysis

to understand the economic framework

before you can start jumping to drawing conclusions.

That's no fun.

We all want to jump to draw conclusions

and say, this should happen, this shouldn't happen.

You can't do that.

We have to be disciplined.

We have to start with the fundamental economic framework.

OK?

And basically, the bottom line, I

said I'll teach this course with a policy bent,

but you have to recognize that economics at its core

is a right-wing science.

Economics at its core is all about how the market knows

best, and that basically, governments

only mess things up.

That's sort of the basic, a lot of what

we'll learn this semester.

As semester goes on, we'll talk about what's

wrong with that view and how governments can improve things.

Indeed, I teach a whole course about the proper role

of government and economy.

But the standard of economics is the market knows best.

And that leads us to the last thing I want to talk about,

which is basically, how freely should an economy function?

Let's step back to the giant picture.

Let's step back from a market for roses to the entire economy.

How freely should a market, should an economy function?

We have what's known as a capitalistic economy.

In a capitalistic economy, firms and individuals

decide what to produce and consume,

maybe subject to some rules of the road set by the government.

There's some minimal rules of the road

to try to avoid fraud or misinformation,

but otherwise, we let the dice roll.

Firms and consumers decide sort of what to do.

Now, this has led to tremendous growth.

America was not a wealthy nation.

It was not a very wealthy nation 100 years ago, 150 years ago.

It's led to tremendous growth where

we are now still the most powerful and wealthiest

nation in the world, largely driven

by the capitalistic nature of our economy.

On the other hand, we are a nation

with tremendous inequality.

We are by far the most unequal major nation in the world.

The top 1% of Americans has a much higher share of our income

than in any other large country in the world,

any other large developed country in the world.

The bottom 99% has less of our income

corresponding to anywhere else.

So it's led to major inequality.

And it's led to other problems.

It turns out that the government can't appropriately

set the rules of the road to avoid things like fraud,

as we saw with Enron, if you remember back to that,

or a lot of what happened during the financial meltdown.

It turns out it's hard to get people perfect information,

et cetera.

So we've seen the problems.

We've grown very wealthy as a nation.

We've introduced a whole set of problems through this system.

Now, the other extreme is what's called the command economy.

Rather than a capitalist economy,

it's what's called the command economy.

In this case, the government makes all the production

and consumption decisions.

The government doesn't just set the rules of the road.

The government owns the road.

The government says we're going to produce this many cars

this year.

And people can get them in some way.

It could be a lottery.

It could be waiting in line.

However, we decide to allocate them.

We're not going to let the market allocate them.

We, the government, will allocate them.

We'll allocate how many get produced and who gets them.

And this was the model of the Soviet Union that I grew up with.

This was the pre-1989 Soviet Union.

The government decided how many shirts, cars, TVs, everything.

It's sort of bizarre to think about.

Literally everything, the government

decided how much to produce.

And by and large, the government decided

who got it partly through corruption.

That is, the party members, party leaders got it first,

and often just through waiting in line

for the remaining application.

Now, in theory, this ensured equity

by making sure that everybody had shot a thing.

In practice, it didn't work well at all.

And actually was what dragged down

the collapse of the old Soviet economy,

was that the command model simply doesn't work.

Partly, there's just too many opportunities for corruption.

When the government controls everything,

that means there's no checks and balances

on the opportunity for enormous corruption.

The capitalist economy puts some natural checks and balances

on that.

And partly because it turns out that it's

hard to control human nature.

And Adam Smith had it right.

Adam Smith talks about the invisible hand

of the capitalist economy.

The invisible hand is basically the notion

that the capitalist economy will manage to distribute things

roughly in proportion to what people want.

And that's where folks want to be.

Folks who want a certain kind of car

are going to want to get to that kind of car.

And if the government has it wrong,

they're going to get upset, and it's

going to lead to a less functional economy.

OK?

So basically, Adam Smith's view is that the invisible hand view

is that consumers and firms serving their own best interest

will do what is best for society.

So the fundamental core of the capitalistic view

is that consumers and firms serving their own best interest

will do what ends up being best for society.

And that's essentially the model we'll

learn to start in this course.

Yeah?

In that definition, are we defining

the best for society as in, like, everybody

has the most money, or everyone has the best health

or the best income living?

What is the best for society?

Great question.

We're going to spend a lot of the semester talking

about that.

For now, we're going to find best for society

as the most stuff gets produced and consumed.

OK?

That's how we're going to find it.

Obviously, you've raised a set of issues about,

what about pollution?

What about health?

Et cetera.

We're going to come to those.

But for the first 2 thirds of the course,

best for society means what we're

going to call maximum surplus, which is the most stuff gets

produced that people value.

OK?

So that's how we're going to do it.

And in his view, the visual hand does that.

And by and large, it's a very helpful framework to turn to.

OK?

However, it can lead to outcomes that are not very fair.

So the way we're going to proceed in this course

is we're going to start by talking about how

Adam Smith's magic works.

How does the magic happen?

How does individuals and firms acting their own self-interest,

without caring about anybody else,

end up yielding the largest possible productive economy?

OK?

How does that happen?

OK?

And we're going to talk about that.

We'll start with demand, which is

how do consumers decide what they want,

given their resources.

We'll talk about the principle of utility

maximization, the idea that I have utility function,

that I can mathematically write down what I want.

I'll have a budget constraint, which is the resource I have,

and then we'll do constrained optimization.

We'll say, give them what I want and the resource I have.

What decisions do I make?

Boom, we get the demand curve.

Then we'll turn to supply.

And we'll talk about how do firms decide what to produce.

That's much more complicated, because firms

have to decide what inputs to use

and what outputs to produce.

And we'll talk about how firms can operate

in very different markets.

There's a competitive market that Smith envisioned,

but that doesn't always work.

Sometimes we get monopoly markets,

where one firm dominates.

And you can actually end up with outcomes

which aren't the best possible outcome,

even with the invisible hand.

So we'll talk about different kinds of markets.

Then we'll put it together to get market equilibrium

and talk about Smith's principles.

And then from there, we'll talk about how it breaks down

in reality, different change in reality,

how there are various market failures that

can get in the way, why we have to care about equity

and what implications that has, about behavioral economics,

about a set of other factors.

So that's basically how we're going to proceed this semester.

As I said, the lectures are important,

but the recitations are as well.

Once we're sort of in steady state,

the recitation will be about half new material and half

working through problems to help you prepare

for the next problem set.

So where the problem sets are going to work is the problem

set that's assigned will cover material that's

taught up to that date.

So for example, problem set one is

going to be assigned next Friday.

That will cover everything you've learned up

through next Wednesday.

Therefore, in section on next Friday,

we'll do a practice problem, which

you should understand because it'll cover things

we've taught in class and help prepare you for the problem set.

And we'll do that every week.

That about half the sections.

The other half the section will be new material.

This Friday, the section on Friday is all new material.

We're doing Friday is cover the mathematics.

I don't like doing math.

I always get it wrong.

So I leave math for the TAs who are smarter than I am.

So this Friday, we're doing the mathematics of supply

and demand and how you take the intuition here

and the simple graphics and actually turn it

into mathematical representations, which

is what you need for the problem sets.

This Friday, then we'll come back on Monday

and start talking about what's underneath the demand curve.

Any other questions?

I'll see you on Monday.

