Maybe it's the school system that's making these kids feel like they don't belong.

Let's build on her point.

So what's the problem with schools around the country and what are things that could

be done differently in order to create a more peaceful society?

I think I related school to, in a sense, jail.

My point was I went freshman year and you have one rectangle of a window and some rooms

had bars on the windows and then you really don't have a lot.

It's just really dark and you don't feel very welcome and you're not welcome to voice your opinion.

Maybe we could hire teachers based on how they would relate to students and almost like

if they wanted to voice their problems then they could do that as well with the teachers

and they would make them feel more comfortable with each other and they would actually care

more about their students and if they're learning or not.

When you are set in a classroom and it's really dark, there's no windows, there's no, like

you don't see any outdoor nature, it brings your mood down because if a kid goes to jail

they'll be used to the scenery, to the environment, due to the classroom environment.

I think that the architecture of a class should be more open, more bright.

There's nature around them.

Thank you, Alec.

If you're going to a school while you just went to sleep at 2am and you had to wake up

at 6 o'clock to go to school and you're going to a school where it's dark and surrounded

with one small window with bars on them and comparing it to high tech, high tech has windows,

and it's friendly, it's a friendly environment that I think when you compare it to a public

school to this, I mean you feel like, I guess you're treated like the best here, like royalty.

Would it be wiser for us to spend our time focusing on the youth through schools and

juvenile hall, juvenile justice system, or would it be wiser for us to spend our time

focusing on mental health?

Like if we were really going to go in depth with one area or is there another area we're missing?

We should all realize from the shootings that have happened, all those people who had mental

health didn't get the help that they needed, so I think that we need to focus more on the

area of mental health.

In most cases within shootings it is mental ill men or sometimes women, but, and we're

putting them all in jail, which they just come back out and it's the same, like the

same thing over and over, but with teens they learn there's something actually wrong

with our healthcare system that we need to focus on more.

Aaron?

I think the main focus should be mental health because a teenager's brain is much different

than an adult's brain, so we have to look at every aspect of what mental health is and

not just focus on one category of it.

Monica?

In the 60 minutes video it mentioned how someone could be totally perfectly normal at the age

of 20, but then be psychotic by the age of 21 or more, so it's not really so much like

the difference between the brains, it's more like the development of the brain and like

how it grows throughout the years and how it develops.

People don't develop like these mental illnesses till later, like, or they're ignored until

later, like people start like noticing it more when they're in like their early adulthood.

It's not that they develop these illnesses when they become their late teens or 20s,

they're more commonly brought up then, but it can happen at any time during school and

you could be an old man and be thinking these things.

Bianca?

I think mental health, like how we like take care of the people who are mentally ill or

how we diagnose people, it needs to start, as Jojo had said, like focusing in the adolescence

because there's been a lot of school shootings and even some of the as young as the age of

11 have been like showing symptoms and been like one of the cases I read about was like

a school shooting at a middle school, so it's more like we have to, it's like a society

like mental health, like we kind of have to start paying attention more to like the symptoms

in all age groups, not just entirely adolescents or adulthood.

So what is wrong with our mental health care system right now?

Like, if I'm to say like, hey, you know, you kids sound really smart, but like, there

are experts working on this and we have a mental health care system right now and it

seems to work okay.

What's wrong with it?

With treatment, they would be okay, but it's just, that's the thing, we're not having

enough, we're not having everybody that has a mental illness treated.

We're either getting put in jails where we, you said that Bianca's dad is a jail guard

or a prison guard and he's, that's not his job to focus on mental illness.

I mean, I'm pretty sure he went into the job as a, to guard against prisoners, you know.

These are people with mental illnesses that, you know, just have had problems, problems

throughout their life and they need help.

They don't need to be put in places where they're going to be pushed around and just

treated unhumanly.

