We've talked a lot this year about praise versus academic feedback. So you said

feedback. Do we sometimes give ourselves praise? I had a girl, good job, I got this.

But Lillian took it a step further and she said feedback. What is feedback? What

is that? What does that mean? Truman? You're giving somebody academic feedback versus

praise is something that we work on. Start understanding the differences

between early in the year. Praise is good. We need that as human beings. We

need to hear that we've done a good job or hey, kind of missed the mark. To really

grow as learners, we need to know specifically what we did well so we can

continue to do that and build on it. And we need to know specifically what we

need to work on so that we can address that. So we find meaningful bits of

feedback that are not overwhelming, not too many at one time, and we model that

throughout lessons every day. Instead of saying you did that wrong, you say next time make sure

that you restate the question in your answer. That would be specific academic feedback, right?

And then a good job. That's a praise, correct? Mallory, what did you want to say?

If you're giving good feedback, you can say I like this. That would be praise. But then you

could add on and say I like how you added that fact in your detail about the main idea.

I'm thankful. I oftentimes in lessons ask them what in the lesson helped you today

be a better learner? What helped you understand? What was a roadblock? I need

your feedback. So I allow them to give me feedback on the lesson so that when I'm

planning lessons, I can take that into consideration. So having that two-way

street of I'm willing to take it, they are more willing to take it. And then

modeling what praise versus academic feedback looks like and sounds like.

Questioning is a key part of our educational rubric, our team rubric. We meet once a week and we focus on an

indicator of the rubric and we plan a lesson as a team that is taught, reflected

upon, and then refined. And then we are able to reteach it again if we see fit

or we have it banked for next year. So questioning was an indicator that we

worked on quite a bit last year. When you think about the connection between

questioning, thinking, problem-solving, there are so many benefits to planning

questions that explicitly drive children towards mastery of your objective or a

better understanding in that lesson of your objective. So it is a purposeful

planning to make sure that those questions are connected. Okay friends and

neighbors, are we ready to come back together as a class and share? Okay, so

here's what we're gonna do. I'd like everyone to come to the carpet with your

team and be super focused with our team. Bring your paper, bring your brain. I have

question stems and academic feedback stems and accountable talk and we have

all kinds of supports in place so that the children know how to ask meaningful

questions to one another also. So how about the effort equals success group?

Will you come up as a team? Speaker ready? Come on up and support one another. Now as a

class we have our speaking and listening standards, right Andrew? And so as part of

those we make eye contact with our speaker. We show them that we appreciate

them as people and the work that they did to be up here, right? So we're gonna

listen quietly and attentively and you guys are gonna speak clearly so that

they can hear your fabulous work. Okay, you ready? Instead of saying this is

this this is good enough you can say I'm gonna keep trying. All of these reasons

will help you believe in yourself. What do we think about this guys? Okay, so what academic feedback could we give them about their

answer? So we gave them some praise when we clapped and that felt good didn't it?

Praise is good, that's okay. But what academic feedback could we give them?

Olivia? Maybe a little less of reasons how but a little more reasons why. Okay, do you guys feel that's fair? Okay, all right.

That's how I can have a better mindset and not say is this good. What do you think guys?

Wow! What feedback do you have for the never give up?

It doesn't always have to be constructive. You can say it's something that they did

well, right? So they know to do that next time. Cooper? So we do at times as fourth

graders get a little focused, hyper focused on what could be improved and so we have

to be mindful of giving that feedback on what you did do well and so in the

lesson you did see that our redirected our focus to come up with things that

the students did well because they did a lot that was really good and they should

be proud of that but they need to know specifically what was beneficial in that

learning objective that they mastered. Okay, nice catch. That's great.

So it's building the rigor of the questions so that I can get them where I

want them to be which is very high expectations because our children

academically are capable of so much. They really are. They're like little sponges.

You just have to push.

